W-14123713-until-successful-cv (#169)
mulesoft/docs-code-builder: modules/ROOT/pages/_partials/mule-components/4.4/component-until-successful.adoc

----
ERROR 2022-12-09 17:41:44,910 ... event: cdad31c0-782b-11ed-af21-147ddaaf4f97] 
...UntilSuccessfulRouter: Retrying execution of event, attempt 1 of 5.
...
ERROR 2022-12-09 17:41:55,079 ... event: cdad31c0-782b-11ed-af21-147ddaaf4f97] 
...UntilSuccessfulRouter: Retrying execution of event, attempt 5 of 5.
----
* If the FTP Write operation executes successfully in any of the attempts, the next processor after the Until Successful scope executes. In this example, the Logger executes with the message `File upload success`.

//OPTIONAL: SHOW OUTPUT IF HELPFUL
//The example produces the following output: 

//OUTPUT_HERE 

//end::component-xml-ex1[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml-ex2[]
[[example2]]

The following example ACTION_VERB_HERE_WITH_DESCRIPTION_OF_WHAT_IT_DOES_OR_SHOWS

[source,xml]
----
< EXAMPLE_XML_HERE />
----

//OPTIONAL: SHOW OUTPUT IF HELPFUL
//The example produces the following output: 

//OUTPUT_HERE 

//end::component-xml-ex2[]
//

//SECTION: ERROR HANDLING if needed
//
//tag::component-error-handling[]

[[error-handling]]
== Error Handling

ERROR_HANDLING_DETAILS_HERE

//end::component-error-handling[]
//

//tag::variable-propagation[]

== Variable Propagation

> Every execution of the Until Successful scope starts with the same variables and values present before the execution of the block. New variables or modifications to already-existing variables while processing one element are not visible in the next execution (in case there is an error). If the execution finishes correctly, the variables (and payload) are propagated to the rest of the flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every execution of the Until Successful scope starts with the same variables and values present before the execution of the block, even if an error occurs within the scope before the maximum number of retries is exhausted. New variables or modifications to already-existing variables while processing one element are not present when the scope executes. If the execution finishes successfully, the variables (and payload) are propagated to the rest of the flow.
```

Reviewer: @IvanAndresFritzler Can you help me understand why we say "(in case there is an error)" here?

Reviewer: Are we actually talking about the retry of the components inside Until Successful if there is an error, then any changes made to variables in the scope before the retry aren't kept for the retry?

//
//tag::component-title[]

> = Until Successful (<component-xml-root/>)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
= Until Successful (<until-successful/>)
```

//end::component-title[]
//

//
//tag::component-short-description[]
//     Short description of the form "Do something..." 
//     Example: "Configure log messages anywhere in a flow."

Executes processors inside its scope, in order, until they all succeed or the scope exhausts the maximum number of retries. 

//end::component-short-description[]
//

//
//tag::component-long-description[]

Until Successful runs synchronously. If any processor within the scope fails to connect or to produce a successful result, Until Successful retries all the processors within it, including the one that failed, until all configured retries are exhausted. If a retry succeeds, the scope proceeds to the next component. If the final retry does not succeed, Until Successful produces an error.

Routing is successful if no exception is raised or if the response matches an expression.

Common processes that use Until Successful include:

> * Dispatching to outbound endpoints, for example, when calling a remote web service that might have availability issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Dispatching to outbound endpoints, for example, when calling a remote web service that might have availability issues
```

> * Executing a component method, for example, when executing on a Spring bean that may depend on unreliable resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Executing a component method, for example, when executing on a Spring bean that might depend on unreliable resources
```

> * Using a sub-flow to re-execute several actions until they all succeed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Using a Subflow component (`<sub-flow/>`) to re-execute several actions until they all succeed
```

//end::component-long-description[]
//

//SECTION: COMPONENT XML
//
//tag::component-xml-title[]

[[component-xml]]
== Component XML

This component supports the following XML structure:

//end::component-xml-title[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml[]

[source,xml]
----
<until-successful 
  doc:name="Until successful" 
  doc:id="mbqhsp" >
  <!-- Components to execute inside the scope -->     
</until-successful>
----

//end::component-xml[]
//
//tag::component-snippet-xml[]

[[snippet]]

=== Snippet XML

Snippet XML in Anypoint Code Builder serves as a customizable template for the component. 

[source,xml]
----
SNIPPET_XML_HERE
----

//end::component-snippet-xml[]
//
//
//
//
//TABLE: ROOT XML ATTRIBUTES (for the top-level (root) element)
//tag::component-xml-attributes-root[]

[%header,cols="1,3a"]
|===
| `<until-successful/>` Attributes 
| Description

| `doc:name` 
| Editable name for the component.

| `doc:id` 
| Automatically generated identifier for the component.

| `maxRetries` 

> | Maximum number of retries allowed. This attribute can be either a number or an expression that resolves to a number. Error messages show in the following form: `Message: 'until-successful' retries exhausted`. The Mule error type is `MULE:RETRY_EXHAUSTED`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Maximum number of retries allowed. This attribute can be either a number or an expression that resolves to a number. Error messages look like this: `Message: 'until-successful' retries exhausted`. The Mule error type is `MULE:RETRY_EXHAUSTED`.
```

| `millisBetweenRetries` 

> | Specifies, in milliseconds, the minimum interval between two retries. The actual interval depends on the previous execution, but it should not exceed twice this number. This attribute can be either a number or an expression that resolves to a number. Defaults to `60000` milliseconds (one minute). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Specifies, in milliseconds, the minimum interval between two retries. The length of the interval is affected by a previous execution but typically does not exceed twice the minimum. This attribute can be a number or an expression that resolves to a number. Defaults to `60000` milliseconds (one minute). 
```

[source,xml]
----
<!-- FTP Connector config-->
<ftp:config name="FTP_Config" doc:name="FTP Config" >
  <ftp:connection workingDir="${ftp.dir}" host="${ftp.host}" />
</ftp:config>

<flow name="untilSuccessfulFlow" >
  <!-- Scheduler component to trigger the flow-->
  <scheduler doc:name="Scheduler" >
    <scheduling-strategy >
      <fixed-frequency frequency="15" timeUnit="SECONDS"/>
    </scheduling-strategy>
  </scheduler>
  <!-- Until Successful scope-->
  <until-successful maxRetries="5" doc:name="Until Successful" millisBetweenRetries="3000">
    <!-- FTP Write operation that executes as part of the Until Successful Scope -->
    <ftp:write doc:name="Write" config-ref="FTP_Config" path="/"/>
  </until-successful>
  <logger level="INFO" doc:name="File upload success" message="File upload success"/>
  <!-- Error Handler at flow level-->
  <error-handler>
    <on-error-continue enableNotifications="true" logException="true" doc:name="On Error Continue" type="RETRY_EXHAUSTED">
      <logger level="INFO" doc:name="File upload failed" message="File upload failed"/>
    </on-error-continue>
  </error-handler>
</flow>
----

Behavior of the example application:

> * If the FTP Write operation fails
> +
> The Until Successful scope retries the operation every `3000` milliseconds until the operation succeeds, with a limit of `5` retries. If the last execution fails, the scope throws a `MULE:RETRY_EXHAUSTED` error. Then, the `<on-error-continue>` handles the error and executes the Logger with the message: `File upload failed`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the FTP Write operation fails, Until Successful scope retries the operation every `3000` milliseconds until the operation succeeds, with a limit of `5` retries. 
+
If the last execution fails, the scope throws a `MULE:RETRY_EXHAUSTED` error. Then the `<on-error-continue>` handles the error and executes the Logger with the message `File upload failed`. 
```

+
Before throwing `MULE:RETRY_EXHAUSTED`, Mule also logs each unsuccessful attempt to retry execution of the processors on the Mule event, for example:
+
[source,logs]
----
ERROR 2022-12-09 17:41:44,910 ... event: cdad31c0-782b-11ed-af21-147ddaaf4f97] 
...UntilSuccessfulRouter: Retrying execution of event, attempt 1 of 5.
...
ERROR 2022-12-09 17:41:55,079 ... event: cdad31c0-782b-11ed-af21-147ddaaf4f97] 
...UntilSuccessfulRouter: Retrying execution of event, attempt 5 of 5.
----

> * If the FTP Write operation executes successfully in any of the attempts
> +
> The next processor after the Until Successful scope executes, in this case, the Logger showing the message: `File upload success`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If the FTP Write operation executes successfully in any of the attempts, the next processor after the Until Successful scope executes. In this example, the Logger executes with the message `File upload success`.
```

//OPTIONAL: SHOW OUTPUT IF HELPFUL
//The example produces the following output: 

//OUTPUT_HERE 

//end::component-xml-ex1[]
//
//
//tag::component-xml-ex2[]
[[example2]]

The following example ACTION_VERB_HERE_WITH_DESCRIPTION_OF_WHAT_IT_DOES_OR_SHOWS

[source,xml]
----
< EXAMPLE_XML_HERE />
----

//OPTIONAL: SHOW OUTPUT IF HELPFUL
//The example produces the following output: 

//OUTPUT_HERE 

//end::component-xml-ex2[]
//

//SECTION: ERROR HANDLING if needed
//
//tag::component-error-handling[]

[[error-handling]]
== Error Handling

ERROR_HANDLING_DETAILS_HERE

//end::component-error-handling[]
//

//tag::variable-propagation[]

== Variable Propagation

> Every execution of the Until Successful scope starts with the same variables and values present before the execution of the block. New variables or modifications to already-existing variables while processing one element are not visible in the next execution (in case there is an error). If the execution finishes correctly, the variables (and payload) are propagated to the rest of the flow.

Reviewer: "in the next execution" of Until Successful or the next component. 

ok, based on testing, this probably means the next execution of Until Successful. Within Until Successful, a Logger could see the value of a variable set before Until Successful. When the value was changed and another variable created inside Until Successful, one Logger inside the scope got the new value and another Logger inside the scope was able to get the value of the new variable set inside the scope. After the scope completes successfully, other Loggers also got the new value and the value of the new variable set inside the scope. 

When Until Successful executed when the flow started, the same thing occurred. 

Further, on the subsequent execution of US,  a Logger before the scope returns null on a variable that is not set yet. 

What's not clear is why we say "(in case there is an error)". Need more info.
